docs(v1.12.0): add CHANGELOG-1.12.0.md (#13231)
longhorn/longhorn: CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.12.0.md

# Longhorn v1.12.0 Release Notes

The Longhorn team is excited to announce the release of Longhorn v1.12.0. This feature release marks a major milestone for Longhorn: the **V2 Data Engine** is now officially **Generally Available (GA)**.

With the V2 Data Engine reaching GA, Longhorn v1.12.0 strengthens the production story for modern workloads with topology-aware provisioning, dual-stack and V2 IPv6 support, improved observability and operational tooling, and clearer guidance around V1 and V2 behavior and feature parity.

For terminology and background on Longhorn releases, see [Releases](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn#releases).

## Removal

### V2 Backing Image Removal

> V2 Backing Images are removed in Longhorn v1.12.0. Use the [Containerized Data Importer (CDI)](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.12.0/advanced-resources/containerized-data-importer/containerized-data-importer/) to import images into Longhorn for compatibility with the current engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
V2 Backing Images are removed in Longhorn v1.12.0. Suggest using the [Containerized Data Importer (CDI)](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.12.0/advanced-resources/containerized-data-importer/containerized-data-importer/) to import VM disk images into V2 volumes to achieve the same purpose.
```

- [DOC] Improve `Configurable CPU Cores` description [12740](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12740) - @chriscchien @sushant-suse
- [DOC] KB for iSCSI loop back connection issues [12548](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12548) - @COLDTURNIP @roger-ryao
- [DOC] Fix typos in documentation and enhancement files [12628](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12628) - @luojiyin1987
- [TASK] Add FOSSA action workflow to longhorn/<component> repos [12506](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12506) - @derekbit
- [DOC] Evaluate HugePage Usage of Longhorn V2 Volumes [12504](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12504) - @derekbit

## Contributors
- @COLDTURNIP 
- @Copilot 
- @DodoLeDev 
- @Edo78 
- @EpochBoy 
- @Felipalds 
- @Flou21 
- @Nemric 
- @PhanLe1010 
- @Profiidev 
- @SquaredPotato 
- @TheFutonEng 
- @Turgon37 
- @WebberHuang1118 
- @abacef 
- @adarmi 
- @apoorvajagtap 
- @archy-rock3t-cloud 
- @aviralgarg05 
- @bachmanity1 
- @boomam 
- @brandboat 
- @c3y1huang 
- @carterli0407-cell 
- @chamarakera 
- @chriscchien 
- @davepgreene 
- @davidcheng0922 
- @derekbit 
- @drewmullen 
- @ejweber 
- @elTwingo 
- @farukheaver 
- @flori4n 
- @futhgar 

> - @github-actions[bot] 

Reviewer: nit: exclude bot.

Author: Updated. Thank you.

[GitHub Issue #12926](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12926)

#### Replica CR Leak During Failed Local Scheduling

Longhorn v1.12.0 fixes a replica scheduling issue where large numbers of stopped Replica CRs could accumulate when `dataLocality` was set to `best-effort` and the node did not have enough eligible local disk space for another replica. In affected clusters, recurring reconciliation could keep creating placeholder Replica CRs instead of reusing a single failed-schedule placeholder.

[GitHub Issue #13152](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/13152)

#### CSI Storage Capacity Tracking

Longhorn v1.12.0 fixes a CSIStorageCapacity scheduling issue that could cause compute nodes without Longhorn disks to report zero capacity and be rejected by `WaitForFirstConsumer` scheduling. In affected clusters with separated compute and storage nodes, new PVCs could remain pending even though eligible storage was available on storage nodes.

[GitHub Issue #12807](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/12807)

> #### Encrypted Volume Size After Engine Upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Encrypted Volume Live Migration Support
```

Author: Renamed to `Encrypted Volume Size Correction`
